feat(examples): add restaurant simulation and onboarding docs (#152)
graphcore-research/gwr: gwr-developer-guide/md_src/applications/examples.md

# Examples

> Here is a collecion of examples written using GWR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a collection of examples written using GWR.
```

Author: Good spot

## First Examples

> These are the best entry points for new users.

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
## Abstract Examples

```

depending on command-line arguments.

Compare running:

```bash
cargo run --bin scrambler
```

against

```bash
cargo run --bin scrambler -- -s
```

## System Exploration Examples

These examples show GWR being used to build larger systems that you might find
in silicon devices.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

> [!Tip]
> Most of these larger simulations support `--progress` to print a
> progress bar if you are running them directly (not using `gwr-terminus`).

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Sim Pipe

This simulation shows how you can model a credit-controlled pipeline in order to
understand throughput, buffering, latency, and backpressure.

Try running it and varying the data and credit delays and the size of the data
buffer which controls the number of credits that can be issued:

```bash
cargo run --bin sim-pipe -- --stdout --pipe-data-delay 10 --pipe-buffer-entries 10 --pipe-credit-delay 10
```

If you now vary the size of the pipe buffer or the delays you will see the
impact on pipeline throughput.

### Sim Ring

The ring-based interconnect simulation shows how the arbitration can cause such
an architecture to deadlock.

> How to explore it: use the reusable Terminus recipe when you want to sweep ring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reusable Terminus recipe can be used when you want to sweep ring
```

size, arbitration priority, buffer sizes, or trace settings without rebuilding a
long command by hand.

```bash
cargo run --bin terminus -- run --recipe examples/sim-ring/recipes/explore_ring_priorities.yaml
```

You will notice how having a fair priority for ring traffic causes deadlock and

> it is essential to give priority to traffc in the ring to prevent this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is essential to give priority to traffic in the ring to prevent this.
```

Author: Good spot

### Sim Fabric

This simulation demonstrates how GWR can be used to build models at different
levels of abstraction.

You can use the Terminus recipes to explore the impact of the model which you

> will see produce quite different performance numbers:

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
You can use the Terminus recipes to explore the impact of the level of abstraction modelled, which you
will see produce quite different performance numbers:
```

```bash
cargo run --bin terminus -- run --recipe examples/sim-fabric/recipes/explore_model.yaml
```

You can show that with a different traffic pattern the two models do produce
very similar results.

```bash
cargo run --bin terminus -- run --recipe examples/sim-fabric/recipes/explore_model.yaml --ARGS "--traffic-pattern all-to-one"

> ```

Reviewer: Just an observation really, as I'm not sure there is an easy fix, but the box this is rendered in is exactly the same width as `cargo run --bin terminus -- run --recipe examples/sim-fabric/recipes/explore_model.yaml` which hides the additional argument (making it appear identical to the command above).

Author: I've tried tweaking the text and giving just the extra arguments.

There is also a recipe to show how to explore the impact of the fabric data
ticks per hop:

```bash
cargo run --bin terminus -- run --recipe examples/sim-fabric/recipes/explore_ticks_per_hop.yaml
```

### gwr-timetable

This application shows how to move from platform-level architectural exploration

> to a concrete workload schedule.

Reviewer: I think refering to it just as an application could confuse people less familiar with the project, given gwr-timetable is a package containing a library and a collection of command-line applications, one of which is called `gwr-timetable`. I'm also not sure I understand quite what this sentence is driving at?

`sim-ring` and `sim-fabric` help you study structure, contention, and transport
behavior. `gwr-timetable` lets you ask what happens when you evaluate real

> execution graphs of tasks and tensor movements onto a chosen platform.

Reviewer: What makes the graph within a timetable more "real" than the work modelled in something like `sim-ring`?

How to run it:

```bash
cargo run --bin gwr-timetable -- --platform gwr-platform/examples/platform.yaml --timetable gwr-timetable/examples/small.yaml --stdout --stdout-level info --dump-stats

> ```

Reviewer: I think of gwr-timetable as being one of the tools provided alongside the engine, in a similar way to spotter, for example, and not as one of the example apps. I think it would make sense to move this to a separate chapter, which we can later expand to also cover the various mechanisms for generating timetables.

Author: Good point - I'll remove it as part of this diff

## Beyond Silicon

> These examples help explain that GWR is a general event-driven simulation

Reviewer: We only have a single example:
```suggestion
The following example helps demonstrate that GWR is a general purpose event-driven simulation
```

Author: Good point.

> framework rather than a silicon-only toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime rather than a silicon-only toolkit.
```

### Sim Restaurant

This application shows how to model queues, staffing, service times, and
business metrics with the same engine used for packet and interconnect

> simulations.

Reviewer: The point this example aims to highlight is that gwr-engine itself isn't just used for silicon simulations, but this wording appears to subtly suggest that that is actually exactly what the engine is for?

How to run it:

```bash
cargo run --bin sim-restaurant -- --min-till-staff 1 --max-till-staff 2 --min-kitchen-staff 1 --max-kitchen-staff 4 --top-results 4
```

> Take a look at which staffing mix maximizes profit, where queues build up, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at which staffing mix maximises profit, where queues build up, and
```

> whether the till or kitchen is the real bottleneck. There is a command-line TUI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whether the till or kitchen is the real bottleneck. There is also a TUI
```

that allows you to inspect the details of what happens during a simulation of a
given staffing configuration:

```bash
cargo run --bin sim-restaurant-tui -- --till-staff 2 --kitchen-staff 5
```

### Additional Example Ideas

The restaurant simulation opens the door to a wider example portfolio. Strong
candidates for future examples include:

- a warehouse picking and packing simulation to show shared resources and order
  completion latency
- a call center or support desk simulation to show staffing, queueing, and
  abandonment behavior
- a hospital triage simulation to show prioritization and service-level
  trade-offs
- a traffic junction or rail platform simulation to show schedules, congestion,
  and fairness
- a cloud job scheduler simulation to show queues, parallel workers, and cost
  versus turnaround time

These would all reinforce the same message: GWR is most useful anywhere the

> system can be expressed as concurrent actors interacting over explicit time.

Reviewer: This reads more like an instruction to the developers of GWR (or perhaps a todo list) rather than something that a new user could learn from to me.

Author: Agreed - removing them.
